## 使用最新的API，并支持新的硬件

* 新的API效率更高
* 在运行时监测版本
* 使用接口或者平行Activity实现API兼容



The parallel Activity pattern

```
  private static boolean shinyNewAPIS = 
  android.os.Build.VERSION.SDK_INT >= android.os.Build.VERSION_CODES.HONEYCOMB;
  
  @Override
  public void onCreate(Bundle savedInstanceState) {
    super.onCreate(savedInstanceState);
    Intent startActivityIntent = null;
    if(!shinyNewAPIS)
      startActivityIntent = new Intent(this, legacyActivity.class);
    else
      startActivityIntent = new Intent(this, hcActivity.class);
      
    startActivity(startActivityIntent);
  }
```

The Interfaces for backwards compatibility

```
  private static boolean newSensorAPIsSupported = 
    Build,VERSION.SDK_INT >= Build.VERSION_CODES.CUPCAKE;
  boolean gyroExists =
    getPackageManager().hasSystemFeature( PackageManager.FEATURE_SENSOR_GYROSCOPE );
  
  IOrientationSensorListener myListener;
  if ( gyroExists )
    myListener = new GyroOrientationSensorListener();
  else if ( newSensorAPIsSupported )
    myListener = new AccOrientationSensorListener();
  else 
    myListener = new AccOldOrientationSensorListener();
```

## Track device drawback

* TelephonyManager.getDeviceId() return null if the device doesn't have telephony support.
* Mac address may not work if Bluetooth or WIFI is missing( or off)
* Don't change when the device is wiped. New user. Same DeviceId
* Settings.Secure.ANDROID_ID is reset on wipe but is unreliable pre Android 2.2.

## Location xxx
## Battery xxx
## Network xxxx

## Capture links using Intent Filters

* Use Intent to capture links.
* Offer the best way to consume your content
* Deep link directly to quivalent content

```
  <activity android:name=".MyActivity">
    <intent-filter>
      <category android:name="android.intent.category.DEFAULT" />
      <category android:name="android.intent.category.BROWSABLE" />
      <data android:scheme="http"
            android:host="mysite.com"
            android:pathPrefix="/news/articles/" />
    </intent-filter>
  </activity>
```

# Memory Managerment

## Heap Size

* Heap size limits  -G1:16M -Droid:24M -N1: 32M -Xoom:48M
* ActivityManager.getMemoryClass()

## Large Heaps

* Honeycomb adds "largeHeap" option in AndroidManifest.xml

```
  <application 
    android:name="com.example.foobar"
    android:largeHeap="true"
    ...
  </application>
```

* ActivityManager.getLargerMemoryClass()

这样可以申请更多的堆内存,申请更多的内存也会增加内存回收的负担，并且迫使其他的App因内存不足被杀死。

##Garbage Collection

* Bigger heaps = longer pauses?
* Pre-Gingerbreak GC - Stop the world - Full heap collection -Pause times often > 100ms
* Gingerbread and beyond: Concurrent(mostly) -Partial collections -Pause times usually <5ms

### Bitmaps

Old way (pre-Honeycomb):
* freed via recycled() or finalizer
* hard to debug
* full, stop-the-world GCs

这种方式必须手动调用 recycled 或者 等待垃圾回收才能回收内存。图片占用的内存是在native模块申请的，java对象指向native的内存。Bitmap对象和图片真实内存不再同一个区域。

New way:

* freed synchronously by GC
* easier to debug
* concurrent & partial GCs

Bitmap和图片实际占用的内存都在托管代码部分。

### Interpreting Log Message

```
D/dalvikvm( 9050 ): GC_CONCURRENT freed 2049K, 65% free 3571K/9991K, external 4703K/5261K, paused 2ms+2ms
```

* Reason for GC -GC_CONCURRENT -GC_FOR_MALLOC -GC_EXTERNAL_ALLOC -GC_HPROF_DUMP_HEAP -GC_EXPLICIT
* Amount freed "freed 2049K"
* Heap statistics "65% free 3571K/9991K"
* External memory statistics "external 4703K(allocated)/5261K(a sort of soft limit)" bitmap pixel data or nio buffer 
* Pause time 

### Heap Dumps

* Binary dump of all object
* Create with: DDMS , android.os.Debug.dumpHprofData()
* Convert to standard HPROF format: hprof-conv orig.hprof converted.hprof
* Analyze with MAT, jhat,etc

### MAT

* Shallow heap 指当前对象占用内存的大小
* Retained heap 指当前对象和所持引用的对象(life owned by current object)的大小加

Dominator(支配者) Tree : closest object on every path to node

使用MAT查泄漏：

1. 在DominatorTree视图中，查找RetainedHeap最大的对象,然后找到它的GC-Root (exclude weak reference)。
2. 在Histogram视图中，查找内存占用最大的对象 => List Objects => GC-Root
3. 在Histogram视图中查找对象实例的数量，通过数量判断是否溢出

可疑对象

* References to Activity,Context,View,Drawable,...
* Non-static innerr classes(eg: Runnable (延迟执行的Runnable持有一个已经摧毁了的Activity对象)) 小心！ 
* Caches

[Tips](http://android-developers.blogspot.com/2009/01/avoiding-memory-leaks.html):

* Do not keep long-lived references to a context-activity (a reference to an activity should have the same life cycle as the activity itself)
* Try using the context-application instead of a context-activity
* Avoid non-static inner classes in an activity if you don't control their life cycle, use a static inner class and make a weak reference to the activity inside. The solution to this issue is to use a static inner class with a WeakReference to the outer class, as done in ViewRoot and its W inner class for instance
* A garbage collector is not an insurance against memory leaks


## Rest API Application

What's wrong with this approach ?

* The operating system may shut down the process
* Data is not persistently stored

REST Method Implementation Patterns

* Use a Service API
* Use the ContentProvider API
* Use the ContentProvider and a SyncAdapter


### Use a Service API

The REST Method

1. An entity which:
  * prepares the HTTP URL & HTTP request body
  * Executes the HTTP transaction
  * Processes the HTTP response
2. Select the optional content type for responses
  * Binary,JSON,XML
  * New in froyo: JSON parser( same org.json API)
3. Enable the gzip content encoding when possible
4. Run the REST method in a worker thread
5. Use the Apache HTTP client


